[MUSIC]
>> Kevin Whinnery: Now we're
actually ready to start creating
the Elastic Beanstalk application and for
that I'm actually gonna go
back to the command line.
To kind of show you what this looks like
end to end, I'm actually gonna clone
this project fresh to show you
exactly what would happen if
you're executing this as we usually do
on a continuous integration server.
These are the steps that would happen to
actually deploy this application with
the exception of actually
initializing the application.
So I'm gonna go.
>> Kevin Whinnery: Oops.
>> Kevin Whinnery: So you can see I have
practiced this once before, once or
twice.
>> Kevin Whinnery: All right,
so I'm pulling down the application and
when I'm ready to actually start
deploying this thing, the first thing
I'm gonna do is I'm gonna cd oops.
>> Kevin Whinnery: Into
the application directory.
And I'm going to type the command
like at this point I assume that
we have the 8WS CLI installed.
And when we do, that's gonna put
this eb command on our system path.
And this is gonna be the primary
way in which we interact with
the elastic beanstalk service.
So the first thing you're
gonna do is eb init.
And that is going to prompt you for
a region in which you would
like to deploy our application.
In this case, I'll go with US East,
Northern Virginia,
it doesn't really matter.
>> Kevin Whinnery: And
then you can if you already have in
a existing Elastic Beanstalk application
that you're looking to associate this
project with, you can choose that.
Otherwise you can create a new
application which we're gonna do here.
All right,
in this one we're gonna call todomvc-
plusplus which is a good
enough default name.
And then it's gonna try to detect the type
of application you're looking to deploy.
So for the Elastic Beanstalk,
it supports certain types of
applications for deployment.
Node.js is one of them, I'm gonna say yes.
And then it'll ask you if you wanna
set up SSH for your instances.
Which will allow you to associate
the public key on your laptop.
With your instances,
you can actually SSH into them.
You can totally do that if you would like.
For demonstration purposes
I'm gonna say no.
And now, we're all set up.
The one step that didn't happen for
me, because I've already done this,
is I was not prompted for
my AWS access key and secret.
So those credentials that you downloaded
from the console before, you'll be
prompted to enter those in during the set
up process when you do eb init, right?
So now I have my application created.
And now I need to create
an environment and
this is actually gonna create EC2
instances that will run my application.
So, to do that, I'm just going to say eb
create.
>> Kevin Whinnery: And
it's going to prompt me for
an environment name.
The environment name is
generated by default.
It's just the name of
your application -dev.
You can call it whatever you want, but
maybe I'll just call it todomvc and
not associate it with an environment.
And then you can enter a CNAME
prefix which is going to be like
the public URL for
your elastic load balancer which will send
traffic to your actual node application.
todomvc would be fine for that.
For the load balancer
the classic of classic
configuration is going to be fine or
we can do either one.
And the options are slightly
different based on the region.
If you did or again like I think there's
a different default for instance.
So now what is happening is something
that is actually ultimately
going to fail because
our application needs
a little bit more configuration
before it'll actually run.
But what's gonna happen is that
Elastic Beanstalk is going to provision
an environment that we can administer
through the admin interface.
It's going to zip up the current
contents of our application directory.
It's gonna create a zip file of that.
It's gonna upload that archive to S3, and
then that archive is actually
going to be deployed to the EC2
instances that are being created for
Elastic Beanstalk right now.
So this is gonna take a little bit,
but there's a little bit of
information that we can already
start to glean from the output here.
It's creating a new environment for us.
So it's already created our S3 bucket and
it has created a security group for
our elastic load balancer.
Which is not something we care about.
Because we're actually more
interested in the security group for
the Elastic Beanstalk
instances themselves,
which we'll be able to get
at the end of this process.
So this does take awhile.
So this would be a good point if you
want to continue along your journey.
If you've already downloaded
your credentials,
going into your application
project directory, doing eb init.
Going through the motions of initializing
your application project and
then doing an eb create to
create an environment to
actually deploy our application to you.
So got the environment going.
Again this is gonna
take take a little bit.
But the thing that we would like to see
get created is a security group for
our actual Elastic Beanstalk instances.
So once we have that,
then we can create the RDS instance,
which is actually gonna talk to.
That our instances are actually
going to talk to, our EC2 instances.
>> Kevin Whinnery: So what did the zero
say to the eight?
Anybody know this one?
Nice belt, yes.
Be here all week.
All right, so
now we can see that an actual EC2 instance
has now been created with this identifier.
By default we're only gonna have the one
instance created that we can deploy our
application to.
>> Kevin Whinnery: All right,
so we've got our
auto-scaling group created,
the instances being added to it.
Checking, checking, checking.
>> Speaker 2: So
it says safe to Ctrl+C but what will
happen at this point if you did that,
you'd have to start over right?
>> Kevin Whinnery: No it would keep going,
the logs are still being
piped like if we Ctrl+C this,
we could actually go into the console.
Which maybe will do right now.
If we go to the Elastic Beanstalk console,
we can see that the todomvc environment
is gray because it's still initializing.
But we could kind of view the logs and
see what's happening there.
>> Kevin Whinnery: Good, we do have our
security group already
a must in this step.